:book: design doc with proposal to re-scaffold projects from scratch (#3221)
kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder: designs/helper_to_upgrade_projects_by_rescaffolding.md

The main motivation of this proposal is to provide a helper for upgrades and
make less painful this process. Examples:

- See the discussion [How to regenerate scaffolding?](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/discussions/2864)
- From [slack channel By Paul Laffitte](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/CAR30FCJZ/p1675166014762669)

### Goals

- Help users upgrade their project with the latest changes
- Help users to re-scaffold the projects from the scratch based on what was done previously with the tool
- Make less painful the process to upgrade

### Non-Goals

- Change the default layout or how the KubeBuilder CLI works
- Deal with customizations or deviations from the proposed layout
- Be able to perform the project upgrade to the latest changes without human bean interactions
- Deal and support external plugins
- Provides support to [declarative](https://book.kubebuilder.io/plugins/declarative-v1.html) plugin
  since it is desired and planned to decouple this solution and donate this plugin to its own authors [More info](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/issues/3186)

> 

Author: ```suggestion
- Support old version prior we have the Project config (Kubebuilder < 3x) and the go/v2 layout which exist to ensure  a backwards compatibility with legacy layout provide by Kubebuilder 2x
```

> ## Proposal

Author: ```suggestion

## Proposal
```

| Authors                            | Creation Date | Status      | Extra |
|------------------------------------|---------------|-------------|---|
| @camilamacedo86,@Kavinjsir,@varshaprasad96 | Feb, 2023     | Implementeble | - |

Experimental Helper to upgrade projects by re-scaffolding
===================

This proposal amis to provide a new alpha command with a helper which
would be able to re-scaffold the project from the scratch based on
the [PROJECT config][project-config].

## Example

> By running a command like following users would be able to re-scaffold the whole project from the scratch using the

Author: ```suggestion
By running a command like following, users would be able to re-scaffold the whole project from the scratch using the
```

current version of KubeBuilder binary available.

```shell
kubebuilder alpha generate [OPTIONS]
```

## Open Questions

N/A

## Summary

The [PROJECT config][project-config] tracks all configuration and inputs used to create the

> project with the CLI. Therefore, a command could be able to read this information and re-run

Reviewer: nits:
> Therefore, a new command can be designed to load user configs from the `PROJECT` file, and run the corresponding `kubebuilder subcommands` to generate the project based on the new kubebuilder version. Thus, makes it easier for the users to migrate their operator projects to the new scaffolding.

> The [PROJECT config][project-config] tracks all configuration and inputs used to create the
> project with the CLI. Therefore, a command could be able to read this information and re-run
> the same commands with the same data used previously to re-generate the project.

Author: ```suggestion
Therefore, a new command can be designed to load user configs from the [PROJECT config][project-config] file, and run the corresponding kubebuilder subcommands to generate the project based on the new kubebuilder version. Thus, it makes it easier for the users to migrate their operator projects to the new scaffolding.
```

## Motivation

The recommended straightforward steps to upgrade the projects are re-scaffold all from scract using the upper
version/plugin and then, re-add all code source on top again. Therefore, this command would help users in

> order to minimize the required effort by automating which shows technically possible of this process.

Reviewer: Suggestion:
> A common scenario is to upgrade the project to use the newer Kubebuilder. The recommended (straightforward) steps are:
> 1. re-scaffold all files from scratch using the upper version/plugins
> 2. copy user-defined source code to the new layout
> 
> The proposed command will automate the process at maximum, therefore helping operator authors with minimizing the manual effort.

> The recommended straightforward steps to upgrade the projects are re-scaffold all from scract using the upper
> version/plugin and then, re-add all code source on top again. Therefore, this command would help users in
> order to minimize the required effort by automating which shows technically possible of this process.

Author: ```suggestion
A common scenario is to upgrade the project based on the newer Kubebuilder. The recommended (straightforward) steps are:

- a) re-scaffold all files from scratch using the upper version/plugins
- b) copy user-defined source code to the new layout

The proposed command will automate the process at maximum, therefore helping operator authors with minimizing the manual effort.
```

- Make less painful the process to upgrade

### Non-Goals

- Change the default layout or how the KubeBuilder CLI works
- Deal with customizations or deviations from the proposed layout
- Be able to perform the project upgrade to the latest changes without human bean interactions
- Deal and support external plugins
- Provides support to [declarative](https://book.kubebuilder.io/plugins/declarative-v1.html) plugin
  since it is desired and planned to decouple this solution and donate this plugin to its own authors [More info](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/issues/3186)
- Provide support old version prior we have the Project config (Kubebuilder < 3x) and the go/v2 layout which exist to ensure  a backwards compatibility with legacy layout provide by Kubebuilder 2x

## Proposal

The proposed solution to achieve this goal is to create an alpha command as described
in the example section above, see:

```shell
kubebuilder alpha generate \
    --from-project-file=<path> 
    --to=<path where the project should be re-scaffold> 
    --backup=<path-where the current version of the project should be copied as backup>

>     --init-plugins=<chain of plugins key that can be used to create the layout with init sub-command>

Author: ```suggestion
    --layout-plugins=<chain of plugins key that can be used to create the layout with init sub-command>
```

>     --layout-plugins=<chain of plugins key that can be used to create the layout with init sub-command>

Reviewer: The proposed command here looks good to me in general 👍🏼 

The `--to` flag looks brief and straightforward; maybe we can discuss others later. For instance, what about:
- `--from-project-file` --> `--from`
- `--layout-plugins` --> `--plugins`

```

Where:

- project-file: If not informed then, the command would check it in the current directory
- output: If not informed then, it should be the current repository
- backup: if not informed then, it would be the current path -1 level with the name backup

> - init-plugins: if not informed then, it is the same plugin chain available in the layout field

Author: ```suggestion
- layout-plugins: if not informed then, it is the same plugin chain available in the layout field
```

This command would mainly perform the following operations:

> - 1. Make a backup of the current project

Reviewer: I'm curious about the reason to have the backup process here.

Say the author will re-scaffold the project in a new place, where the origin project will not be affected, then what is the use case to back up the origin?

Author: Because if they are not using git, they want to use the local backup to compare the scaffold done from scratch, etc. We can indeed improve that and add a flag where the backup would only generate if/when that is informed.

Author: I added it as a user story as well. Good point.

- 2. Ensure that the output path is clean
- 3. Read the [PROJECT config][project-config]
- 4. Re-run all commands using the KubeBuilder binary to recreate the project in the output directory

### User Stories

- As a developer I can regenerate my project from the scratch based on all commands that I used the tool to build
  my project previously, so that I can easily upgrade my current project to new CLI/plugin versions and get the

>   latest changes, bug fixes and features

Reviewer: Suggestion:
> As an operator author, I can re-generate my project from the scratch by automating the commands based on my previous input to the project, so that I can easily migrate my project to the new layout using the newer CLI/plugin versions, which supports the latest changes, bug fixes and features.

- As a developer I can regenerate my project from the scratch based on all commands that I used the tool to build
  my project previously but informing a new init plugin chain, so that I could upgrade my current project to new
  layout versions and experiment alpha ones.
- As a KubeBuilder maintainer, I can leverage on this helper to encourage its users to migrate to upper versions more often, making it easier to maintain the project.

> 

Reviewer: Suggestion:
Add a new US:
> As a Kubebuiler maintainer, I can leverage this helper to easily migrate tutorial projects of the Kubebuilder book.

| Authors                            | Creation Date | Status      | Extra |
|------------------------------------|---------------|-------------|---|

> | @camilamacedo86,@Kavinjsir,@varsha | Feb, 2023     | Implementeble | - |

Author: ```suggestion
| @camilamacedo86,@Kavinjsir,@varshaprasad96 | Feb, 2023     | Implementeble | - |
```

does not provide official support and distributed many plugins within for the same reasons.

### Proof of Concept

All input data is tracked. Also, as described above we have examples of code implementation 
that uses the binary to scaffold the projects. Therefore, the goal of this project seems 
very reasonable and achievable. An initial work to try to address this requirement can
be checked in this [pull request](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/pull/3022)

## Drawbacks

- If the value that feature provides does not pay off the effort to keep it
maintained then we would need to drawback.
- If a better suggestion solution to address the need be proposed. 

## Alternatives

N/A

## Implementation History

The idea of automate the re-scaffold of the project is what motivates
us track all input data in to the [project config][project-config]
in the past. We also tracked the [issue](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/issues/2068)
based on discussion that we have to indeed try to add further 
specific implementations to do operations per major bumps. For example:

To upgrade from go/v3 to go/v4 we know exactly what are the changes in the layout

> then, we could automate this specific operations as well.

Author: ```suggestion
then, we could automate these specific operations as well. However, this first idea is harder yet
to be addressed and maintained. 
```

- project-file: If not informed then, the command would check it in the current directory
- output: If not informed then, it should be the current repository
- backup: if not informed then, it would be the current path -1 level with the name backup
- init-plugins: if not informed then, it is the same plugin chain available in the layout field

This command would mainly perform the following operations:

- 1. Make a backup of the current project
- 2. Ensure that the output path is clean 
- 3. Read the [PROJECT config][project-config]
- 4. Re-run all commands using the KubeBuilder binary to recreate the project in the output directory

### User Stories

- As a developer I can regenerate my project from the scratch based on all commands that I used the tool to build 
my project previously, so that I can easily upgrade my current project to new CLI/plugin versions and get the 
latest changes, bug fixes and features
- As a developer I can regenerate my project from the scratch based on all commands that I used the tool to build
my project previously but informing a new init plugin chain, so that I could upgrade my current project to new 
layout versions and experiment alpha ones. 

> 

Author: ```suggestion
- As a KubeBuilder maintainer I can leverage the helper so that I can encourage its users to migrate to upper versions more often which would make it easier to keep the project maintained. 
```

> - As a KubeBuilder maintainer I can leverage the helper so that I can encourage its users to migrate to upper versions more often which would make it easier to keep the project maintained. 

Author: ```suggestion
- As a KubeBuilder maintainer I can leverage on this helper so that I can encourage its users to migrate to upper versions more often which would make it easier to keep the project maintained. 
```

> ### Implementation Details/Notes/Constraints

Author: ```suggestion

### Implementation Details/Notes/Constraints
```

### Proof of Concept

All input data is tracked. Also, as described above we have examples of code implementation
that uses the binary to scaffold the projects. Therefore, the goal of this project seems
very reasonable and achievable. An initial work to try to address this requirement can
be checked in this [pull request](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/pull/3022)

## Drawbacks

- If the value that feature provides does not pay off the effort to keep it
  maintained, then we would need to deprecate and remove the feature in the long term.

## Alternatives

N/A

## Implementation History

The idea of automate the re-scaffold of the project is what motivates
us track all input data in to the [project config][project-config]
in the past. We also tracked the [issue](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/issues/2068)
based on discussion that we have to indeed try to add further
specific implementations to do operations per major bumps. For example:

To upgrade from go/v3 to go/v4 we know exactly what are the changes in the layout
then, we could automate these specific operations as well. However, this first idea is harder yet
to be addressed and maintained.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

## Future Vision

We could use it to do cool future features such as creating a GitHub action which would push-pull requests against the project repositories to help users be updated with, for example, minor changes. By using this command, we might able to git clone the project and to do a new scaffold and then use some [git strategy merge](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/merge-strategies-in-git/) to result in a PR to purpose the required changes.

We might need to store the CLI tool tag release used to do the scaffold to persuade this idea. So that we can know if the project requires or not updates. 
```

| Authors                            | Creation Date | Status      | Extra |
|------------------------------------|---------------|-------------|---|

> | @camilamacedo86,@Kavinjsir,@varshaprasad96 | Feb, 2023     | Implementeble | - |

Reviewer 2: Implementeble -> Implementable

> | @camilamacedo86,@Kavinjsir,@varshaprasad96 | Feb, 2023     | Implementeble | - |

Author: ```suggestion
| @camilamacedo86,@Kavinjsir,@varshaprasad96 | Feb, 2023     | Implementable | - |
```

Experimental Helper to upgrade projects by re-scaffolding
===================

> This proposal amis to provide a new alpha command with a helper which

Reviewer 2: This proposal **amis** -> This proposal **aims**

> This proposal amis to provide a new alpha command with a helper which

Author: ```suggestion
This proposal aims to provide a new alpha command with a helper which
```

```

## Open Questions

N/A

## Summary

Therefore, a new command can be designed to load user configs from the [PROJECT config][project-config] file, and run the corresponding kubebuilder subcommands to generate the project based on the new kubebuilder version. Thus, it makes it easier for the users to migrate their operator projects to the new scaffolding.

## Motivation

A common scenario is to upgrade the project based on the newer Kubebuilder. The recommended (straightforward) steps are:

- a) re-scaffold all files from scratch using the upper version/plugins
- b) copy user-defined source code to the new layout

The proposed command will automate the process at maximum, therefore helping operator authors with minimizing the manual effort.

The main motivation of this proposal is to provide a helper for upgrades and
make less painful this process. Examples:

- See the discussion [How to regenerate scaffolding?](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/discussions/2864)
- From [slack channel By Paul Laffitte](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/CAR30FCJZ/p1675166014762669)

### Goals

- Help users upgrade their project with the latest changes

> - Help users to re-scaffold the projects from the scratch based on what was done previously with the tool

Reviewer 2: re-scaffold ~the~ projects from ~the~ scratch -> re-scaffold projects from scratch

> - Help users to re-scaffold the projects from the scratch based on what was done previously with the tool

Author: ```suggestion
- Help users to re-scaffold projects from scratch based on what was done previously with the tool
```

- Make less painful the process to upgrade

### Non-Goals

- Change the default layout or how the KubeBuilder CLI works
- Deal with customizations or deviations from the proposed layout

> - Be able to perform the project upgrade to the latest changes without human bean interactions

Reviewer 2: without human **bean** interaction~s~ -> without human **brain** interaction
I guess in this case you mean "brain" ? This word could also be just removed tho : "without human interaction"

> - Be able to perform the project upgrade to the latest changes without human bean interactions

Author: ```suggestion
- Be able to perform the project upgrade to the latest changes without human interactions
```

**As a Kubebuiler maintainer:**

- I can leverage this helper to easily migrate tutorial projects of the Kubebuilder book.
- I can leverage on this helper to encourage its users to migrate to upper versions more often, making it easier to maintain the project.

### Implementation Details/Notes/Constraints

Note that in the [e2e tests](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/tree/master/test/e2e) the binary is used to do the scaffolds.
Also, very similar to the implementation that exist in the integration test KubeBuilder has
a code implementation to re-generate the samples used in the docs and add customizations on top,
for further information check the [hack/docs](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/tree/master/hack/docs).

This subcommand could have a similar implementation that could be used by the tests and this plugin.
Note that to run the commands using the binaries we are mainly using the following golang implementation:

```go
cmd := exec.Command(t.BinaryName, Options)
_, err := t.Run(cmd)
```

### Risks and Mitigations

**Hard to keep the command maintained**

> I risk to consider would be we identify that would be hard to keep this command maintained

Reviewer 2: I found this sentence hard to understand, I would suggest:
> A risk to consider is that it would be hard to keep this command maintained

> I risk to consider would be we identify that would be hard to keep this command maintained

Author: ```suggestion
A risk to consider is that it would be hard to keep this command maintained
```

because we need to develop specific code operations for each plugin. The mitigation for
this problem could be developing a design more generic that could work with all plugins.

However, initially a more generic design implementation does not appear to be achievable and
would be considered out of the scope of this proposal (no goal). It should to be considered
as a second phase of this implementation.

Therefore, the current achievable mitigation in place is that KubeBuilder has a policy of
does not provide official support and distributed many plugins within for the same reasons.

### Proof of Concept

All input data is tracked. Also, as described above we have examples of code implementation
that uses the binary to scaffold the projects. Therefore, the goal of this project seems
very reasonable and achievable. An initial work to try to address this requirement can
be checked in this [pull request](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/pull/3022)

## Drawbacks

- If the value that feature provides does not pay off the effort to keep it

>   maintained then we would need to drawback.

Reviewer 2: we would need to **drawback** -> we would need to **remove it**

>   maintained then we would need to drawback.

Author: ```suggestion
  maintained, then we would need to deprecate and remove the feature in the long term.
```

> - If a better suggestion solution to address the need be proposed.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure to understand this sentence and if I do I don't think it's a drawback so I'm quite confused. Maybe you could rephrase it or remove it if it is not really needed as it could confuse people ?

> - If a better suggestion solution to address the need be proposed.

Author: ```suggestion
```

The main motivation of this proposal is to provide a helper for upgrades and
make less painful this process. Examples:

- See the discussion [How to regenerate scaffolding?](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/discussions/2864)
- From [slack channel By Paul Laffitte](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/CAR30FCJZ/p1675166014762669)

### Goals

- Help users upgrade their project with the latest changes
- Help users to re-scaffold projects from scratch based on what was done previously with the tool
- Make less painful the process to upgrade

### Non-Goals

- Change the default layout or how the KubeBuilder CLI works
- Deal with customizations or deviations from the proposed layout
- Be able to perform the project upgrade to the latest changes without human interactions
- Deal and support external plugins
- Provides support to [declarative](https://book.kubebuilder.io/plugins/declarative-v1.html) plugin
  since it is desired and planned to decouple this solution and donate this plugin to its own authors [More info](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/issues/3186)

> - Provide support old version prior we have the Project config (Kubebuilder < 3x) and the go/v2 layout which exist to ensure  a backwards compatibility with legacy layout provide by Kubebuilder 2x

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Provide support to older version before having the Project config (Kubebuilder < 3x) and the go/v2 layout which exists to ensure  a backwards compatibility with legacy layout provided by Kubebuilder 2x
```

## Proposal

The proposed solution to achieve this goal is to create an alpha command as described
in the example section above, see:

```shell

> kubebuilder alpha generate \
>     --from=<path of the project file> 
>     --to=<path where the project should be re-scaffold> 
>     --backup=<path-where the current version of the project should be copied as backup>
>     --plugins=<chain of plugins key that can be used to create the layout with init sub-command>
> ```
> 
> Where:
> 
> - from: [Optional] If not informed then, the command would check it in the current directory
> - to: [Optional] If not informed then, it should be the current repository
> - backup: [Optional] If not informed then, the backup by copying the project to a new directory would not be made
> - plugins:  [Optional] If not informed then, it is the same plugin chain available in the layout field

Reviewer 3: At the first glance (for someone new) the `from` and `to` flags seem to be `from` and `to` plugins. Thoughts on making it:
```suggestion
kubebuilder alpha generate \
    --input-dir=<path of the project file> 
    --output-dir=<path where the project should be re-scaffold> 
    --backup=<path-where the current version of the project should be copied as backup>
    --plugins=<chain of plugins key that can be used to create the layout with init sub-command>

Where:

- input-dir: [Optional] If not informed then, the command would check it in the current directory. If the `PROJECT` file does not exist it errors. 
- to: [Optional] If not informed then, it should be the current repository.
- backup: [Optional] If not informed then, the backup would be copied to the current directory.
- plugins:  [Required] If not informed then error out.
```

The two major changes I made are:
- backup: [Optional] - If not informed then, the backup would be copied to the current directory.

As an operator author I would still prefer to have a backup created by default in the current directory. If not I would not want to lose the current project. The user can have the option of not doing a back up through `--no-backup` flag. Thoughts on that?

- plugins:  [Required] If not informed then error out
 The  main use case of this command is to re-generate the project with another plugin. If it is not provided, instead of using the same plugin available and creating a copy, can we instead error? If the user would like to create a project with same APIs and plugin as they already have, they can specify it explicitly in the `plugins` field.

Thoughts on this?

Author: HI @varshaprasad96,

> backup: [Optional] - If not informed then, the backup would be copied to the current directory.
We might able to have the backup in the same directory if we create the a new dir prefixed with `.` (example my-operator/.backup/my-operator). I think that is a good idea 👍 

> plugins: [Required] If not informed then error out

Why would be required to inform? if not informed that we will use the value from the PROJECT file that we can found in the layout. That allows we scaffold the project for the same plugin but to get the minor changes. Is that make sense?

Author: WDYT about we keep `from:` and `to`? It seems very intuitive. Also, we could allow only inform the project path as well to do this operation. (In this case the backup would not be made)

Reviewer 3: @camilamacedo86 `from`, `to` seems generic - its confusing if its the directory from where input project will be taken and re-created or the plugin names which need to be converted. I'd still prefer `input-dir` and `output-dir` to be specific, but we can change it later during the implementation too.

This command would mainly perform the following operations:

- 1. Check the flags
- 2. If the backup flag be used, then check if is a valid path and make a backup of the current project

> - 3. Ensure that the output path is clean

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- 3. Ensure that the output path is clean, if not error out.
```

This is to ensure that we end up producing a clean state of scaffolding.

Author: @varshaprasad96 I added on top in the example so workflows.
In this case, we cannot return error because by default this directory will not be empty.
It will have the files from the previous scaffold. So we need to remove all files. 

I also, improve this one to try make more clear.
Let me know wdyt?

- 4. Read the [PROJECT config][project-config]

> - 5. Re-run all commands using the KubeBuilder binary to recreate the project in the output directory

Reviewer 3: Do we allow the user to provide us the option on which KB binary to use. For example I would have an older version in my path, but want to recreate the project with latest one. Can we have a flag that lets user provide the path to the kubebuilder binary that they want to use. If its not provided we use the one in PATH.

Author: Add an flag to allow this option as well.

Also, very similar to the implementation that exist in the integration test KubeBuilder has
a code implementation to re-generate the samples used in the docs and add customizations on top,
for further information check the [hack/docs](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/tree/master/hack/docs).

This subcommand could have a similar implementation that could be used by the tests and this plugin.
Note that to run the commands using the binaries we are mainly using the following golang implementation:

```go
cmd := exec.Command(t.BinaryName, Options)
_, err := t.Run(cmd)
```

### Risks and Mitigations

**Hard to keep the command maintained**

A risk to consider is that it would be hard to keep this command maintained
because we need to develop specific code operations for each plugin. The mitigation for
this problem could be developing a design more generic that could work with all plugins.

However, initially a more generic design implementation does not appear to be achievable and
would be considered out of the scope of this proposal (no goal). It should to be considered
as a second phase of this implementation.

> Therefore, the current achievable mitigation in place is that KubeBuilder has a policy of
> does not provide official support and distributed many plugins within for the same reasons.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Therefore, the current achievable mitigation in place is that KubeBuilder's  policy of not providing official support of maintaining and distributing many plugins.
```

- Deal with customizations or deviations from the proposed layout
- Be able to perform the project upgrade to the latest changes without human interactions
- Deal and support external plugins
- Provides support to [declarative](https://book.kubebuilder.io/plugins/declarative-v1.html) plugin
  since it is desired and planned to decouple this solution and donate this plugin to its own authors [More info](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/issues/3186)
- Provide support to older version before having the Project config (Kubebuilder < 3x) and the go/v2 layout which exists to ensure  a backwards compatibility with legacy layout provided by Kubebuilder 2x

## Proposal

The proposed solution to achieve this goal is to create an alpha command as described
in the example section above, see:

```shell
kubebuilder alpha generate \
    --from=<path where the PROJECT file can be found> 
    --to=<path where the project should be re-scaffold> 
    --no-backup
    --backup-path=<path-where the current version of the project should be copied as backup>
    --plugins=<chain of plugins key that can be used to create the layout with init sub-command>

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

**Where:**
```

- Deal with customizations or deviations from the proposed layout
- Be able to perform the project upgrade to the latest changes without human interactions
- Deal and support external plugins
- Provides support to [declarative](https://book.kubebuilder.io/plugins/declarative-v1.html) plugin
  since it is desired and planned to decouple this solution and donate this plugin to its own authors [More info](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/issues/3186)
- Provide support to older version before having the Project config (Kubebuilder < 3x) and the go/v2 layout which exists to ensure  a backwards compatibility with legacy layout provided by Kubebuilder 2x

## Proposal

The proposed solution to achieve this goal is to create an alpha command as described
in the example section above, see:

```shell
kubebuilder alpha generate \
    --from=<path where the PROJECT file can be found> 
    --to=<path where the project should be re-scaffold> 
    --no-backup
    --backup-path=<path-where the current version of the project should be copied as backup>
    --plugins=<chain of plugins key that can be used to create the layout with init sub-command>

> Where:

Author: ```suggestion
```

Where:
```

- Deal with customizations or deviations from the proposed layout
- Be able to perform the project upgrade to the latest changes without human interactions
- Deal and support external plugins
- Provides support to [declarative](https://book.kubebuilder.io/plugins/declarative-v1.html) plugin
  since it is desired and planned to decouple this solution and donate this plugin to its own authors [More info](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/issues/3186)
- Provide support to older version before having the Project config (Kubebuilder < 3x) and the go/v2 layout which exists to ensure  a backwards compatibility with legacy layout provided by Kubebuilder 2x

## Proposal

The proposed solution to achieve this goal is to create an alpha command as described
in the example section above, see:

```shell
kubebuilder alpha generate \
    --from=<path where the PROJECT file can be found> 
    --to=<path where the project should be re-scaffold> 
    --no-backup
    --backup-path=<path-where the current version of the project should be copied as backup>
    --plugins=<chain of plugins key that can be used to create the layout with init sub-command>

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```
```

### Goals

- Help users upgrade their project with the latest changes
- Help users to re-scaffold projects from scratch based on what was done previously with the tool
- Make less painful the process to upgrade

### Non-Goals

- Change the default layout or how the KubeBuilder CLI works
- Deal with customizations or deviations from the proposed layout
- Be able to perform the project upgrade to the latest changes without human interactions
- Deal and support external plugins
- Provides support to [declarative](https://book.kubebuilder.io/plugins/declarative-v1.html) plugin
  since it is desired and planned to decouple this solution and donate this plugin to its own authors [More info](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/issues/3186)
- Provide support to older version before having the Project config (Kubebuilder < 3x) and the go/v2 layout which exists to ensure  a backwards compatibility with legacy layout provided by Kubebuilder 2x

## Proposal

The proposed solution to achieve this goal is to create an alpha command as described
in the example section above, see:

```shell
kubebuilder alpha generate \

>     --from=<path where the PROJECT file can be found> 

Author: ```suggestion
    --input-dir=<path where the PROJECT file can be found> 
```

>     --to=<path where the project should be re-scaffold> 

Author: ```suggestion
    --output-dir=<path where the project should be re-scaffold> 
```

    --no-backup
    --backup-path=<path-where the current version of the project should be copied as backup>
    --plugins=<chain of plugins key that can be used to create the layout with init sub-command>
```

**Where**:

> - from: [Optional] If not informed then, by default it is the current directory (project directory). If the `PROJECT` file does not exist then it will fail.

Author: ```suggestion
- input-dir: [Optional] If not informed then, by default it is the current directory (project directory). If the `PROJECT` file does not exist, then it will fail.
```

> - to: [Optional] If not informed then, it should be the current repository.

Author: ```suggestion
- output-dir: [Optional] If not informed then, it should be the current repository.
```
